{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14440\viewh16500\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 Write a personal statement ~ cover letter
\b0 \cf0 \
The personal statement is your opportunity to discuss personal motivations, your research interests, your experience and activities, and future goals. The personal statement should focus on your personal background or experiences that have significantly influenced you or your goals. It should be a document that describes your abilities, skills, and accomplishments as evidence of your aspirations for pursuing your career in research and proceeding your research in Flanders.\
\'85/3000 characters\
\
I am currently a third year graduate student at the AstroParticule & Cosmology laboratory at the University of Paris 7 Diderot. Since fall 2013, I have been conducting my PhD research in Computational Astrophysics under the supervision of Fabien Casse and Andrea Goldwurm and will defend in September 2016. I apply to the incoming Pegasus2 Marie Sklodowska-Curie fellowship at KU Leuven for I believe it will be a valuable asset to pursue and develop my emerging career. \
\
I have devoted my Bachelor years to the most intense trainings in Physics and Mathematics delivered in France so as to gain access to the Ecole Normale Sup\'e9rieure, one of the only Grandes Ecoles so involved in fundamental research. Once there and in order to enlarge the scope of my physical culture in a comprehensive range of fields, from Relativity to Organic Chemistry and Optics, I prepared the Agr\'e9gation where I ranked second. In parallel, after two research internships in France and supported by the ENS fellowship, I volunteered to join the Kepler satellite data analysis effort under Saul Rappaport\'92s supervision at MIT. During this key year, I was introduced to stellar evolution and binary systems and took an active part in the discovery and characterization of the first disintegrating exoplanet. This seminal long term experience in Research laid the foundations of my scientific program : a better understanding of stellar bodies and remnants in interaction with their environment.\
\
The selection algorithm and data analysis pipeline I developed at MIT to monitor eclipse timing variations in close-in binary stars enabled us to identify more than 30 new systems which actually harbored a third non-transiting stellar companion in 2013. The next year, it came into play when we carried on a detailed analysis of the shortest-period exoplanets, those right in the spotlight of their host star. \
\
As I started my PhD with Fabien Casse, I turned to the numerical tool to model the turbulent twilight of binary systems, the X-ray binaries. I have become acquainted with advanced technics such as numerical solvers for hyperbolic partial differential equations and coding for parallel computing so as to make the most of the MPI-AMRVAC code developed by Rony Keppens and collaborators. Thanks to the improvements I made and to the computing time I was granted on national clusters, I could run large spatial dynamics simulations of wind accretion onto compact objects. Ongoing work, soon to be released, generalizes this case to the enlarged scope of Supergiant X-ray binaries and confronts it to recent observations. On the other hand, with Thierry Foglizzo, I am carrying out a refined study of the stability of the numerically relaxed flow I obtained in 2015.\
\
The several collaborations I have set up and my extensive participation to international conferences show my full will to communicate and confront my work to the state-of-the-art studies in the domain. In 2015, I joined the organizing committee of the 3rd Meeting of the Young Physicists (RJP), an event patronized by the French Society of Physics (SFP) and the main Physics institutes of Paris, as a community manager. I have been granted teaching responsibilities by the Physics department of Paris 7 from my first year of PhD, with 64 hours per year of monitored tutorials and lab assignments for Bachelor and Master students. \
\
To make Flanders a new scientific partner.\
\
}