{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red52\green52\blue52;\red249\green249\blue249;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18000\viewh12120\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Time variable accretion onto neutron stars in X-ray binaries
\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
TVAccNS-XB
\b0  for the call 
\b H2020-MSCA-IF-2016
\f2\b0\fs30 \cf0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The discovery of the first extrasolar X-ray source 50 years ago triggered the rise of High Energy Astrophysics and paved the way to the acceptance of two exotic solutions of General Relativity, black holes and neutron stars (aka compact objects, CO). Within a decade, the X-ray emission was attributed to the conversion of gravitational energy into heat as a flow of plasma is accreted onto a CO. The source of matter in X-ray binaries is a star orbiting the CO. \
Surveys of those systems revealed that this mass transfer displays a broad range of spectral and photometric behaviors with an incredible time variability : sudden bursts which make the system 10,000 times brighter, switches from hard to soft X-ray emission, off-states... all this on time scales from milliseconds to months. As the star evolves, it reaches a critical size : a stream of gas forms from the star to the CO and feeds a large and permanent accretion disc around the CO. This disc has turned out to be an incredibly rich background on top of which can grow various instabilities accounting for the time variability. However, a similar time variability has been witnessed when the star does not fit the conditions required to build up a stream. Mass transfer must then proceed via the fast stellar winds, a fraction of which being captured by the gravitational field of the CO. A shock forms around the tiny CO and the very existence of a disc is to be shown.\
The complex Physics at stake has long been beyond our reach due to limited numerical capacities. Those intrinsically intertwined systems require multi-scales approaches to fully appreciate the turbulent flow, from the Dantean stellar surface down to the magnetic vicinity of a neutron star. Game changing high performance computing technologies have ushered in a gold rush to design semi-analytical models of X-ray binaries supported by numerical simulations. Once pies in the sky, consistent representations of the accretion process are now within our grasp. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
}