{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red52\green52\blue52;\red249\green249\blue249;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18000\viewh12120\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Time variable accretion onto neutron stars in X-ray binaries
\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
TVAccNS-XB
\b0  for the call 
\b H2020-MSCA-IF-2016
\f2\b0\fs30 \cf0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The discovery of the first extrasolar X-ray source in the 60\'92s triggered the rise of High Energy Astrophysics and paved the way to the acceptance of black holes and neutron stars (aka compact objects, CO). The X-ray emission is attributed to the conversion of gravitational energy into heat as gas is accreted onto a CO. The source of matter in X-ray binaries is a star orbiting the CO. \
Surveys of those systems revealed that this mass transfer displays a broad range of spectral and photometric behaviors with an incredible time variability : sudden bursts which make the system 10,000 times brighter, switches from hard to soft X-ray emission, off-states... all this on time scales from milliseconds to months. This variability can be explained by instabilities within a classic accretion disc around the CO. However, matter is not always expected to slowly spiral in and form a classic disc, especially when the donor star displays fast winds, a fraction of which being captured by the gravitational field of the CO. We aim at highlighting the conditions favorable to the formation of a wind-capture disc, to characterize its structure (permanence, size, thickness\'85) and to investigate its innermost parts.\
The complex Physics at stake has long been beyond our reach due to limited numerical capacities. X-ray binaries are intrinsically intertwined systems which require multi-scales approaches to fully appreciate the turbulent flow, from the Dantean stellar surface down to the magnetic vicinity of the neutron star it feeds. Game changing high performance computing technologies have ushered in a gold rush to design semi-analytical models of X-ray binaries supported by numerical simulations. Once pies in the sky, consistent representations of the accretion process are now within our grasp. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
}